this year the Ferrari f40 the Grand
Master of all supercars is 25 years old
to celebrate I've been given a rare
opportunity to drive one of these
legendary machines on a racetrack this
immaculate model with just 6,000 miles
on the clock is one of the best examples
on the planet and it's my pleasure to
blow out its birthday candles and get
behind the wheel
I'll start with how the legend was born
it was derived from the phrase bread
evil
they'll be racing for Milliman grouping
died and then Enzo Ferraris soaring and
not
the 14th anniversary of his wonderful
company
this was the last ever Ferrari to be
personally signed off by Enzo himself
mystery
those drivers the Ferrari will only ever
dream because it was not cheap
when the f40 went on sale in 1987 it
cost one hundred ninety three thousand
pounds that doesn't include any
adjustment for inflation in today's
money it would have cost half a million
pounds
forty-four hours
cars with 800 horsepower I looked at
this thought it was a little flavor z
twice thing
Jane's sort of
my wife
Gus adlets
in the five years it was on sale Ferrari
sold 1340 s three times as many as they
had planned
one vial was nigel mansell who later saw
his for 800,000 pounds right now is
actually a brilliant time to buy an f40
prices are rising fast and soon you
won't be able to get one for less than
two hundred and fifty thousand pounds so
those you have just won the lottery
here's my Ferrari f40 buyers guide while
revealing the glorious v8 engine is a
three-man job
experts say that the f40 is one of the
simplest Ferraris to maintain a bit down
a bit
the engine is easy to access and
reliable with small oil leaks the most
common problem but running an f40 isn't
for the faint-hearted while an annual
service costs a mere eight hundred
pounds these one and a half foot wide
tyres are one thousand pounds a pair a
new clutch is around three thousand
pounds
and a full set of brakes six thousand
a crucial check for any potential buyer
involves the two rubber fuel tanks
hidden at the back of the car they need
replacing every 10 years a cost of 13
thousand pounds so make sure there's
proof that the work has been recently
done and if you want to guarantee the
provenance of your f40 make sure it's
got a classic a certificate proof that
Ferrari themselves have agreed that the
car is in original condition
certificates aside what really defines
the f40 is how it
five-eight
during regeneration the lights in the
way left going there you go
still the way in the fight the power
let's go
public
my god
Oh
is that your tip is it someone's ride
enjoy your driving here today
to show just how brilliant the f40 is
let me compare it to a rival which over
ten years and with the pinup hero on
every young boy's bedroom wall and this
cubing model it was launched by the same
time as the m14 and
it's the O's bath
the authority at all other than AC
dr. 62 over a second quicker
but it's not just the weight of a car
but let the Lamborghini down
Controls breaks every clap Chevy pedals
all offset to one side a car heellenshow
with the way the pedals are
this is like driving a battleship from
just waiting a light white destroyer
I've got my knees on the steering wheel
are gonna wanna put my left foot to get
off the clutch pedal the brakes are
failing where is the more I drove the
Ferrari the Valastro wanted to go
McKeen
the slower our to go oh please stop stop
war we've been round and a breaking the
nose dives
we'll just put you to battle the bedroom
wall I think
forty is a magical machine in the 25
years since it came into the world
there's never been a supercar so raw so
driver-focused
and so perfect
and Ferrari
14 another thing
like Africa